[[Viken]]’s people have been steeped in war, conflict, and struggles for survival since the continent’s founding. Divinity is very important to the people of [[Viken]]. A tight pantheon of related deities keep watch over the continent, interfering in affairs fairly regularly, particularly in periods of great strife.

  

The War of 500 P.D., a continent-spanning battle that threatened to tear apart the very fabric of the world itself, happened within living memory of many of the older members of society. The Gods’ intervention in that epic battle is the only thing that kept the armies of Surtur from wiping out civilization. Many in Úlfurfold believed this battle was Ragnarok, the prophesied Final Battle that will destroy the world. The defeat of Surtur’s armies led to weeks-long celebrations throughout the continent, as the survivors rejoiced in their victory and devoted excessive worship to the gods who saved them.

Temples to the gods are plentiful in [[Viken]]. Shrines have been set up along many of the major roadways for people to pay homage to their gods and leave offerings of food, precious silks, gold, or other tributes. Port cities and towns full of sailors will likely worship Njord, god of the sea and winds, while the Dwarvish City of Faerun worships Skadi, the goddess of the forge and craftsmanship. Those who seek glory in battle worship Thor, god of storms and thunder, or his wife Sif, goddess of honor. Elves who live in the kingdom of Úlfurfold might worship Uller, goddess of the hunt.